2024 CCSC Eastern Conference
Programming Competition
October 19th, 2024
Mount St. Mary’s University, Emmitsburg, MD

This page is intentionally left blank.

Problem 1 — SHOUTING
I ALWAYS YELL. FOR THE LONGEST TIME, WHEN I WROTE MESSAGES TO PEO-
PLE, THEY DIDN’T KNOW THAT I WAS YELLING AT THEM. THEN I LEARNED
THAT CAPITAL LETTERS MEAN I’M SHOUTING, SO OF COURSE I WANT TO USE
THEM ALL THE TIME. ALL. THE. TIME. NATURALLY, I WROTE A PROGRAM SO
THAT PEOPLE WILL AUTOMATICALLY KNOW THAT I’M YELLING AT THEM. BE-
CAUSE I AM! ALL THE TIME. YOU SHOULD WRITE YOUR OWN PROGRAM TO DO
THE SAME SO WE CAN YELL AT EACH OTHER. DO IT. DO IT NOW!
Program input : There will be exactly 15 lines of text. Lines of text may include letters,
digits, spaces, and any of these five punctuation symbols: {,.!?-}.
Program output : For each line of text, output that line of text with each lower-case let-
ter replaced by the corresponding upper-case letter. Non-letter characters should remain
unchanged.
Example input :
Hello there
Good to see you!
27
I will have 3 boxes, please.
Where is - the thing?
Hi there
Bad to see you!
28
I will not have 3 boxes.
What is - the thing?
Good-bye
I cannot see you!
29
There is no box.
Why is - the thing?
1

Example output (corresponding to the input shown above):
HELLO THERE
GOOD TO SEE YOU!
27
I WILL HAVE 3 BOXES, PLEASE.
WHERE IS - THE THING?
HI THERE
BAD TO SEE YOU!
28
I WILL NOT HAVE 3 BOXES.
WHAT IS - THE THING?
GOOD-BYE
I CANNOT SEE YOU!
29
THERE IS NO BOX.
WHY IS - THE THING?
2

Problem 2 — Class Photo
As a school photographer, you’re keenly aware of the importance of composing a
class photo for maximum dramatic effect. Lesser photographers would arrange students
in rows, put the taller students in the back, and so forth. However, you know that there
is only one proper way to arrange a class photo: put the students in a single line, sorted
by either increasing height or decreasing height.
To make the most efficient use of your time, you decide to write a program to check
whether students are arranged correctly for a class photo.
Program input : Each normal line of input is a sequence of one or more positive inte-
gers representing student heights in centimeters, with values separated by one or more
spaces. As a special case, if a line contains only the value -1, it indicates the end of input,
and the program should exit without any further output.
Note that there is no arbitrary upper limit on the number of values on one input line.
For example, a very large class might have 1,000 students, and your program should be
able to handle this situation.
Program output : For each normal line of input, the program should print a single
line of text consisting of either “ yes” or “ no”, depending on whether the values on the
line were sorted in either increasing or decreasing order. Note that it is acceptable for
two students to have the same height: an ordering of students is allowed as long as the
sequence of students doesn’t have cases of both increasing height and decreasing height.
Example input :
102 118 120 128 140
145 139 133 123 123 122 115
125 147 120 108 128 98 141 123 132
-1
Example output (corresponding to the input shown above):
yes
yes
no
3

[This page is intentionally left blank.]
4

Problem 3 — Combo Deal
It is several years in the future. During a season of economic troubles, there were a
series of mergers among the major burger chains. Now there are only two major national
fast food burger chains remaining: Checker McSonic’s and WendCastle King.
Due to those same economic troubles, you and your friends insist on going to the
restaurant with the lowest price for your total order. Fortunately, the comparison isn’t
too complicated, because you and your friends have simple food tastes. You only want
burgers, fries, drinks, and dessert (and you don’t care what the dessert is). Unfortunately,
it is complicated by the fact that there are three types of burgers: small, large, and spe-
cialty. Fortunately, you and your friends aren’t picky about which restaurant’s version
you get. Unfortunately, it’s also complicated by the two restaurants’ combo deals.
Each restaurant sells a full menu of items, but you and your friends only care about the
prices of six things: small burger, large burger, specialty burger, fries, drink, and dessert.
Checker McSonic’s has two combo deals. The first grants a discount when a customer
buys a specialty burger with a dessert. The second grants a discount when a customer
buys a small burger and an order of fries. WendCastle King has a combo deal that grants
a discount when a customer buys a large burger, fries, and a drink. Here are the prices at
each restaurant:
Checker McSonic’s
• Small Burger $3
• Large Burger $6
• Specialty Burger $10
• Fries $3
• Drink $2
• Dessert $4
• Combo #1 (Specialty Burger + Dessert) $11
• Combo #2 (Small Burger + Fries) $4
WendCastle King
• Small Burger $2
• Large Burger $7
• Specialty Burger $9
• Fries $3
• Drink $3
• Dessert $3
• Combo (Large Burger + Fries + Drink) $9
5

Program input : The first line of input has an integer n(0< n < 10000 ), and that is
followed by nadditional lines. Each of the other lines indicates an order of food that
you and your friends want to place. A line contains the following: the number of small
burgers, large burgers, specialty burgers, orders of fries, drinks, and desserts, in that
order.
Program output : For each of the orders, print one line containing either CMS (if
Checker McSonic’s provides a cost lower than WendCastle King) or WCK. Then, after
a space, print the group’s total cost in dollars.
Example input :
6
1 2 3 2 0 1
4 4 4 4 4 4
0 5 0 0 0 0
5 0 0 0 0 0
2 0 0 2 0 0
0 0 0 1 0 0
Example output (corresponding to the input shown above):
CMS 50
WCK 92
CMS 30
WCK 10
CMS 8
WCK 3
6

Problem 4 — Jumbled Up
You work for the Bitburg Post-Dispatch newspaper as a puzzle developer. Your read-
ers have demanded to have a “Jumble” type puzzle in the paper, wherein readers must
un-scramble a series of scrambled words. For instance if the scrambled word is “TWHISC”,
the savvy reader will realize the only word which can be made from these letters is
“SWITCH”.
Not every word can be used in creating a Jumble puzzle. For instance the scramble
“GANEL” cannot be used since there are three possible solutions: “ANGEL”, “ANGLE”,
and “GLEAN”. A valid Jumble puzzle only has one possible solution, so the answer can-
not have any anagrams which are also valid words.
In order to facilitate making Jumble puzzles, you need to write a program which will
read in a set of words and find the ones which are “jumble-able” – that is the words for
which there is no other word in the set of words containing the same set of letters.
Program input : Input consists of a number of test cases. Each test case begins with a
line containing a number Ngiving the number of words in this test case. Following that
is a line containing those Nwords, separated with spaces. A value of 0 for Nindicates
that there are no more test cases.
Program output : Output consists of one line containing the text "Results:", followed
by a list of the words from the test case that are jumble-able, printed in alphabetical order.
Example input :
7
TASTE GLEAN ALERT ANGLE MOUNT ANGEL LATER
6
ZOO ALIGNED DEALING LEADING LEANING DEAL
0
Example output (corresponding to the input shown above):
Results:
MOUNT
TASTE
Results:
DEAL
LEANING
ZOO
7

[This page is intentionally left blank.]
8

Problem 5 — Top Ten
The music website Splotchify wants to be able to show each user their own personal
top ten list based on what they listened to over the past 14 days. Splotchify decided to
use a formula to determine the top songs. The formula is based on three values: the
number of times the the song was played ( n), the number of different days that the song
was played ( d), and the span from the earliest day the song was played to the most recent
day the song was played ( s). The span is defined as the difference between the first day
the song was played and the last day the song was played.
The formula used to calculate the top ten is nd+s. The songs with the highest values
for a given listener comprise that listener’s top ten.
Program input : There will be 14 lines of input. Each line lists the id numbers of all the
songs a person played on a given day, separated by spaces. Each id number is a positive
integer from 1 to 1000000000. If no songs were played on a given day, then instead of a
list of numbers, that line will have the number -1. An id number may be listed multiple
times on the same line if a song is played multiple time on the same day.
Program output : Output the id numbers of the top ten songs (in order) based on
the formula above. In the case of ties, lower-numbered songs win. Separate the ten id
numbers with spaces.
Example input :
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 400000000
2 3
2
2
2 2
-1
-1
-1
11
12
13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13
9 10 9 9
1 11 10 10 10 10 10
400000000
Example output (corresponding to the input shown above):
2 10 11 9 400000000 1 13 12 3 4
9

[This page is intentionally left blank.]
10

Problem 6 — Werewolf Transformations
You, for better or for worse, are a werewolf. But unlike a werewolf who is a mindless
beast, powerless to resist the call of the full moon, you can transform back and forth from
wolf form at will. Naturally you use this power to become a super hero: Wolf Person™.
In your wolf form you are are able to run much faster than you can in your regular,
human form. However you struggle with other tasks as a wolf, such as opening doors
(with no opposable thumbs and all). In particular, you can run 10 meters per second as
a wolf, while only 4 meters per second as a human. It takes 8 seconds to open a door in
wolf form and only 1 second as a human. It also takes 5 seconds to transform from one
form to another.
As Wolf Person™, you often find yourself chasing suspects down long hallways with
doors along it. You want to know the fastest way for you to run along such a hallway.
Should you do it as human to open the doors faster, as a wolf to run faster, or will you
need to transform back and forth to maximize your overall speed?
You should write a program that, given the distance you need to travel, and the loca-
tions of all of the doors in that distance, calculates the minimum time needed to cover the
distance, along with how many transformations will be made.
You always begin the chase in your human form. You can be in either human or wolf
form when you reach the end of the hallway.
Program input : The first line of input is an integer, N, giving the number of test cases.
Following that will be Ntest cases, each of which is comprised of three lines. The first line
of each test case is the distance, in meters, that you need to travel. The second line of each
test case will contain the number of doors. There will be between 1 and 100 doors. The
third line contains the locations of the doors along that path, as floating-point numbers
separated by spaces.
Program output : Your output for this program should consist of two numbers for each
test case, separated by a space. The first of these is a floating-point number, with two dec-
imal points of precision given, indicating the minimum number of seconds needed to
make it through the hallway. The second is an integer giving the number of transforma-
tions made along the way.
Example input :
3
100.0
4
10.0 80.0 85.0 90.0
25.0
7
5.0 8.5 10.0 15.5 21.0 22.75 24.0
11

750.0
2
300.0 500.0
Example output (corresponding to the input shown above):
28.50 2
13.25 0
96.00 1
12

Problem 7 — Pokémon Island Survival
In the land of Pokémon, chaos has erupted on a mysterious island! The infamous
Gyarados has been rampaging, causing a massive storm and making the water levels rise
across the entire island. Why, you ask? Well, it turns out Gyarados got confused after a
particularly puzzling conversation with Mr. Mime!
Every time Gyarados tries to calm down, the storm intensifies and causes a flood that
lowers the land elevation. This happens three times! Your mission as a brave Pokémon
Trainer is to figure out how many isolated islands of Pokémon will remain after the floods.
The island is represented as a grid where each cell has an elevation between 0 and 5.
The value 0 represents water, and values 1 to 5 represent different land elevations, with 5
being the highest.
During the three flood steps, the elevation of each land cell decreases by 1. After the
storm, isolated groups of Pokémon, or islands, remain. Islands are formed by connected
land cells with elevation greater than 0, and Pokémon can only move between cells that
share a side (north, south, east, or west).
Your job is to report to Dr. Oak the number of islands that are left after the storm.
Program input : The program will first receive an integer T representing the number
of test cases. Then for each test case:
• The first line will contain two integers m and n, representing the dimensions of the
grid.
• The following m lines will contain n integers each, representing the elevation of the
island at each point in the grid (from 0 to 5).
–0 represents water
–1-5 represent the land’s elevation
The program should simulate three flood steps, decreasing each land cell’s elevation
by 1 during each step. Then, it should count the number of isolated islands where the
remaining land cells have values greater than 0.
Program output : The output is the number of islands left after the three flood steps.
Example input :
3
3 3
5 5 5
5 5 5
5 5 5
4 4
1 2 3 4
13

2 3 4 5
3 4 5 0
4 5 0 0
3 5
5 4 0 0 0
5 3 0 4 4
0 0 2 2 0
Example output (corresponding to the input shown above):
1
1
2
14

Problem 8 — Preprocessing
The C preprocessor transforms an input text file to produce an output text file. One
feature of the C preprocessor is allowing the use of #ifdef ,#else , and #endif direc-
tives for conditional compilation. You will implement a limited C preprocessor which
works as follows.
If the source text has a sequence of lines starting with #ifdef FOO and ending with
#endif , with no corresponding #else directive between them, then the text generated
by the lines between the #ifdef and#endif directives is included in the output if and
only if the FOO preprocessor symbol is defined.
If the source text has a sequence of lines starting with #ifdef FOO and ending with
#endif , and there isa corresponding #else directive between them, then
1. If the preprocessor symbol FOO is defined, then the lines between the #ifdef and
#else are included in the output
2. If the preprocessor symbol FOO isnotdefined, then the lines of text between the
#else and#endif directives are included in the output
Note that #ifdef /#endif and#ifdef /#else /#endif constructs may be nested.
Program input : The input to the program starts with a sequence of one or more lines
terminated by a line containing just <EOF> . All of the lines up to but not including the
<EOF> line are the input text that the preprocessor will work with. Each subsequent line
defines some number (0 or more) of preprocessor symbols, separated by one more spaces.
You may assume that each preprocessor symbol will consist of 1 or more letters. You may
also assume that preprocessor symbols will not be repeated on the same line. There is no
explicit end-of-input indication. When there is no more input, the program should exit
without printing any additional output.
You may assume that in the source text, each #else and#endif will be properly
balanced with a previous #ifdef .
Program output : For each line containing 0 or more preprocessor symbols, the pro-
gram should write a single comment line (explained below) followed by the output text
resulting from preprocessing the input text.
When output text is printed, the comment line preceding it should have the form
/*sym1 sym2 . . .*/where sym1 sym2 . . .is the defined preprocessor symbols, sorted
lexicographically, with adjacent symbols separated by a single space. One space should
separate the /*from the first symbol, and one space should separate the last symbol
from the */. As a special case, if a line defining preprocessor symbols is empty (i.e., no
preprocessor symbols are defined), then the comment line should be /* */, i.e., /*,
followed by one space, followed by */.
When lines of input text are generated as output, they should be generated exactly as
they appear in the input.
15

Example input :
Hello, world
#ifdef Apple
Foobar
#ifdef Banana
>>> A strong smell of petroleum prevails throughout <<<
#else
Woo hoo
#endif
#endif
Yeah
<EOF>
Apple Banana
Apple
Banana
Example output (corresponding to the input shown above):
/*Apple Banana */
Hello, world
Foobar
>>> A strong smell of petroleum prevails throughout <<<
Yeah
/*Apple */
Hello, world
Foobar
Woo hoo
Yeah
/*Banana */
Hello, world
Yeah
16

Problem 9 — Logic Simulation
The following truth table defines the AND, OR, NAND, NOR, and XOR operations
on boolean values (where aandbrepresent input values):
a b a AND b a ORb a NAND b a NOR b a XOR b
T T T T F F F
T F F T T F T
F T F T T F T
F F F F T T F
Each of the above operations can be a logic gate in a digital circuit. In addition, there are
two special kinds of circuit elements, INPUT and OUTPUT, each of which has a single
input and a single output. In general, each gate’s input will be connected to exactly one
gate’s output. The only exceptions are INPUT elements (its input is not connected to any
output) and OUTPUT elements (its output won’t be connected to any gate’s input.) As
their names suggest, an INPUT gate provides an input to the circuit, and an OUTPUT
gate provides an output from the circuit.
Program input : The program input consists of a series of simulations. Each simulation
consists of a circuit description followed by simulation commands. There is no explicit
end-of-input indication: the program should exit when there is no more input.
A circuit description consists of a series of node descriptions, one per line, terminated
by a single line with the text “ simulate ”. Each node description is a line in one of the
following forms:
•operation name pred1 pred2
•input name
•output name pred1
In a node description line, operation is one of and or nand nor xor , and name ,pred1
and pred2 are arbitrary node names. In each case, the node description defines a node
whose name is given by name . For nodes specifying an operation, pred1 andpred2 rep-
resent nodes whose output is connected to one of the inputs of the node being defined.
Here is an example circuit description (the corresponding circuit is shown on the right):
input In1
input In2
nand Gate1 In1 In2
output Out Gate1
simulate
In1
In2Gate1 Out
17

Each simulation command is one of the following:
•set name value
•run
•print name
•done
Theset command sets the input whose name is given to a specified value, either TorF.
Therun command runs the simulation by determining the final value of each input and
output in the circuit when a steady state is reached. The print command prints a line of
output of the form name=value indicating the output value of the named OUTPUT node.
Thedone command finishes the overall simulation, allowing a new simulation (circuit
description and simulation commands) to be started.
Names of gates, INPUT elements, and OUTPUT elements will consist of a letter fol-
lowed by zero or more additional letters or digits. Names are case-sensitive, and may
have upper and/or lower case letters.
You may assume that the input is well formed according to the specification above.
You may also assume that in the circuit description, every input will be driven from the
output of some gate or INPUT element. (The only exception is INPUT elements, whose
inputs are only affected by set commands.) You may assume that for simulating a circuit,
there will be at least one run command before any print command. Note that the circuit
elements in the circuit description may be specified in any order, and it is notguaranteed
that a node will be defined before it is referred to by another node. Also note that an
output could be connected to more than one input, or could not be connected to any
input.
Program output : For each print command,
SNotQR
Q
BottomTop
An S-R latchthe program should print a line of output of
the form name=value indicating the output
value ( TorF) of the named OUTPUT node,
taking into account previous set andrun com-
mands. When a simulation starts (just after
thesimulate line that ends a circuit descrip-
tion), all circuit values (inputs and outputs)
should start out as “unknown”. When a run
command is processed, the simulator should
recompute all values that are affected (directly or indirectly) by previous set commands
that may have changed the output values of INPUT elements. You can assume that a
steady state will be reached in a finite number of steps (recomputations of output values.)
Note that the circuit could have cycles, which means that when the simulator recomputes
the output value at a circuit element, it might need to do so at a time when one of its in-
put values is “unknown”. When this happens, the simulator should treat the “unknown”
value as false. For example, this will happen when simulating the circuit with NOR gates
shown above (which is an “S-R latch”).
18

Example input :
input In1
input In2
nand Gate1 In1 In2
output Out Gate1
simulate
set In1 T
set In2 T
run
print Out
set In1 F
run
print Out
done
input R
input S
nor Top R Bottom
nor Bottom Top S
output Q Top
output NotQ Bottom
simulate
set S T
set R F
run
print Q
print NotQ
set S F
run
print Q
print NotQ
set R T
run
print Q
print NotQ
set R F
print Q
print NotQ
doneExample output (corresponding to
the input shown on the left):
Out=F
Out=T
Q=T
NotQ=F
Q=T
NotQ=F
Q=F
NotQ=T
Q=F
NotQ=T
19

[This page is intentionally left blank.]
20